Scavenger and this DOC file were written by David Ashley. dash@xdr.com
SDL version enhancements were contributed by Barry Mead barrymead@cox.net
---  DETAILED INFO  ---------------------------------------------------------

 ---  DEMO MODE: ---
The game starts up in demo mode, where the game is playing on its own.
Some keys do things:
F1    Start game at first unsolved level
F2    Enter animator
F3    Enter level editor
F4    Start game at level 1 (or level specified by -l option)
F8    Skip to next demo level
F10   Remap movement keys
Alt-X Exit game
Space Go to a menu listing the above things,

alt-c at any time does a screen capture to cap###.lbm.



 ---  MENU MODE: ---
In the menu you get the option to change your player name with F5
F5    Change player name.

 ---  ANIMATOR MODE: ---
The color table will switch all around, don't be surprised.
The animator is a lot like Dpaint.

b        Copy box. Click somewhere in the blowup and drag an area.
shift-b  Go back to last brush.
x        Flip brush in x, or flip square if no brush in hand.
y        Flib brush in y, or flip square if no brush in hand.
z        Rotate brush 90 degrees, or rotate square if no brush in hand.
.        Go to having a single point brush of the current color.
[ and ]  Select previous and next color
,        Pick a color--click somewhere in the blowup to use the same color
         as another one you see. Shorthand for this is clicking left or
         right mouse button on the large color boxes under the icons on
         the center right.
Alt-1    Select the background artwork to work on
Alt-2    Select the hero artwork to work on
Alt-3    Select the enemy artwork to work on
Alt-4    Select the hidden enemy artwork to work on
u        UNDO
f        Area fill mode
d        Draw mode
l        Line mode
r        Rectangle mode
ESC      Exit back to demo mode

Shift-S  Save out file
Shift-L  Load in last saved file
-        Go to smaller built in brush
=   (+)  Go to larger built in brush.

Draw in the blowup box. Clicking the left mouse button draws with the
primary color (indicated by the square in the color map). The right mouse
button paints with the secondary color. Change the primary by clicking
the left mouse button on the color array, and change the secondary by
clicking the right mouse button on the color array.

Select which box to work on with the left mouse button, just click on
the box.

Copy one box to another by using the right mouse button and a click-drag-
unclick operation.

Change the color table by moving the RGB sliders. It is sometimes useful to
change the background color (normally the black in the upper left of the
color array) to something besides black. You will be able to see other
animation frames that are normally hidden, such as the dig animation.

 ---  EDITOR MODE: ---
This is for creating your own levels.
l          load level (use alt-l to force a load)
w          write level (use alt-w to force a write)
space      Try the level
esc        exit back to demo mode
rightarrow Increase level # by 1
leftarrow  Decrease level # by 1
uparrow    Increase level # by 10
dnarrow    Decrease level # by 10
pageup     Increase level # by 100
pagedown   Decrease level # by 100
Keypad Nos.Direct entry of level number (Number keys at top of keyboard also work now)
F1 - F12   Select matching tile type
Keypad +-  Load previous/next level
alt-f      Fill with current tile type

Left mouse button draws with current tile type. Right mouse button erases.

You can start writing new levels at 194 if you don't want to write over
existing levels.

The order of the tiles from left to right is:
Empty
brick      Your hero can dig these
cement     These can't be dug
Ladder
Rail
Fakebrick  You fall through this. The enemies think it's a normal brick.
exitladder These appear after the last object has been collected.
Object     The hero must collect these.
Enemy      You can have 0 to 5 of these
Hero       Only 1 of these
Hidden     This is a place where a hidden monster might be if you dig there.
Flashing   This object is more valuable if you collect it first.


---  SCORING AND MOVIES  ----------------------------------------------------

You've got infinite lives to complete each level, but after each failed
attempt you start all over. Each level has its own best score. If you beat
the level's previous best score, or if the level hasn't been solved before,
a recording of your play will be stored in the $HOME/.scavenger/level.scl
file. It's fun to watch the movies play back in demo mode. Remember F8 will
let you skip levels in demo mode.

Each object is worth 250 points.
The flashing object is worth 8000 points, but you've got to get it first.
If you exit the level without trapping any monsters (the hidden monster
  doesn't count), you get a bonus of 20000 points.
If you exit the level without killing any monsters (the hidden monster
  doesn't count), you get a bonus of 10000 points. You don't get both
  large bunuses together.
The time bonus starts at 10000 points and counts down about 100 points
  every second.
The hidden monster carries an object that is worth 10000 points. Trap him
  to get it. Trapping and killing the hidden monster doesn't harm your bonus--
  the whole idea is to find him and kill him.


---  LEVEL DESIGN  ----------------------------------------------------------

The hidden monsters are an interesting addition. Try to locate them where it
won't hurt the player. You don't want the player to accidentally find a
hidden monster while trying to dig a pit for an enemy to fall into.

The flashing object adds some more variety. Sometimes it's tricky to get
to the flashing object.

Enemies can pick up normal objects temporarily, but not the flashing object.

Writing out a level deletes the matching movie, if there is one.


---  The scavrc file  -  remapping keys  -  alternate gfx sets  -------------

The $HOME/.scavenger/scavrc file contains the game's own key mappings.
You can edit this file to change the mappings, but you've got to know
the keycode. Each item is in hex. The codes are ascii for the common
characters, and otherwise use the MY<thing> code values as defined in
<scav.h>.

The names:

background
hero
enemy
hidden

Point to .lbm graphics format names. If you want to see other graphics
sets, point these to other ones. If you want to create your own graphics
sets, make a copy of an existing one and put it into your
$HOME/.scavenger directory. You might want to rename it also, but keep the
.lbm suffix for future uses. Then change the scavrc file to point to your
new filename. Don't include any path, scavenger looks for the file first
in $HOME/.scavenger then sequentially in the directories listed in
LIBPATH (see names.h) then in $HOME/.scavenger.

If you wish to automatically select an alternate configuration file
(other than scavrc) simply run scavenger with the -c or --config option
like so.
sdlscav --config reddevilrc
sdlscav -c reddevilrc
sdlscav -c micromanrc

In this example you would have a file named reddevilrc in your
$HOME/.scavenger directory that looks like this:

background=redbrick.lbm
hero=reddevil.lbm
enemy=badguy.lbm
hidden=spiral.lbm
upkey=111
downkey=112
leftkey=114
rightkey=113
digleftkey=132
digrightkey=134

