                                STRATEGY

The sdl-scavenger game is much like the popular Lode Runner game by Broderbund. 
There are a few subtle differences however that greatly affect optimal game
strategy.

The score is based on five factors:
 
(Time, Objects, Flashing Objects, Hidden Monster, Enemy Cruelty)

Time:

Time is an important, factor, but not the most important factor.
When you start each game level you are given a 10,000 point time bonus.
Each second of play time deducts 100 points from this bonus.
Once this 10,000 point time bonus is used up, (100 seconds), you
are no longer penalized for taking more time.  Some levels are so
involved that they always take over 100 seconds to solve so (on these levels) 
time is not a factor in determining your score.  If you match the best score
in less time, however, your name will be put into the hall-of-fame and your
game will become the new movie-demo for that level.

Objects: (Blueberrys in the default game configuration)

Collecting these objects gives you 250 points for each collected
object.  While this isn't always the biggest factor in getting a high
score, they all must be collected, before you can finish the level. 
It is also important to remember that the enemies are able to pick-up and
carry the objects for a short while, altering their location.
The "Ladder" progress indicator in the lower left hand corner of your screen
tells you when all of the objects have been collected. (When it is safe to
proceed to the exit at the top of the screen)  Another twist that can affect
your score, is that under certain circumstances the enemies can "Eat" the
objects denying you to opportunity to collect the 250 points for capturing that
particular object.  This happens when an enemy is carrying an object, then
falls diagonally through a blasted hole.  So try to capture the objects
located in these trap areas before the enemies can get to them.  This will
help maximize your score.

Flashing Object: (Flashing Blueberry in the default game configuration)

The Flashing Object appears randomly in one of three locations specified
by the level designer.  It's location changes each time you play the level.
If you can manage to collect the Flashing Object before any of the other
objects (except the Hidden Monster *) you get an 8000 point "Flashing" bonus.
* The Hidden Monster can be collected before the flashing object without
affecting the 8000 point Flashing Object bonus.  Enemies cannot pick-up the
Flashing Object as long as it is flashing.  If you collect another object
before the Flashing Object, it stops flashing (becomes a normal 250 point
object).

Hidden Monster: (Spiral thing in the default game configuration)

The Hidden monster is randomly buried under one of three secret locations
specified by the level designer.  It's location changes each time you play the
level.  You must blast open the block containing the Hidden monster, to release
him.  Then you must blast another hole and re-trap the Hidden Monster in it.
Once the hidden monster is re-trapped he releases his treasure. (It looks
like an orange Pill in the default configuration). Run over his head to
collect the orange pill before it disappears, and you get a 10,000 point
Hidden Monster bonus.  You must re-trap the hidden monster in a block that has
no ladders or other blocks directly above it, or you will not get the bonus.

Enemy Cruelty Penalties:

The enemies are trying to kill you.  If they touch you, they kill you, and
you must replay the level from the beginning.  You must use ladders and holes
to escape them, collect all of the Objects, and exit the level at a ladder
reaching the top of the screen.  If an enemy is trapped in a hole, falling,
or walking/traversing overhand bars, then you can walk on his head without
getting killed.  You cannot safely walk on the enemy's head while he is on
ladders however.

You start each level with a 20,000 point nice guy bonus.  If you drop an
enemy into a hole that you dug (blasted), you lose 10,000 points
(Trapping Penalty).  If you trap an enemy in a hole long enough for it to
grow back around him, then he dies, and he re-appears at the top of the
screen.  When an enemy is killed in this way you lose another 10,000 points
(Killing Penalty).  You can only be penalized once-per-level for each of
these penalties.  When an enemy dies/re-appears, he chooses a random location
from any of the unoccupied blocks along the top row of the screen.  Some levels
are designed with only a few unoccupied blocks in the top row to specifically
control where the enemies may re-appear. (Level 17 for instance)

So to get the best score you try to trick the enemys into falling into holes
that you didn't dig, or fool them into going the wrong way by climbing up/down
ladders, or escaping through holes that you dig.  If you become good at evading,
rather than trapping/killing the enemys, you generally get a better score.  

Some levels are designed so that it is impossible to solve the level without
trapping or killing the enemys.  Some depend on the enemys re-appearing at the
top of the screen to make the level solvable.  On these levels you have to
blast.  But it is always a challenge to try solving the levels without
trapping, or killing the enemys.  It is almost always easier to solve a level
by trapping or killing the enemies, but you usually won't get the highest
possible score if you solve the level that way. 

All of the levels are solvable.  Some are very challenging.  If you don't
believe a level is solvable then run the game with the -s  option to see
how the masters solve the level.  Example:
sdlscav -s -l 40  (Demonstrates how to solve level 40 - linux)
sdlscav -s 40     (Windows users)

When you get good at the game you may prefer to run the game with the -s option
so you can compete with the masters, to see if you can beat their scores/times
in the "Hall-of-Fame" demo movies.

The demos in the masters.scl file (viewable by using the -s option), are often
created by the game or level designers themselves.  So if you can beat their
scores or times, you are doing very well indeed.

                             (Strategy Summary)

So to get the highest score:

1. If there is a flashing object try to collect it first.
2. Study the locations of the hidden monster using the F3 edit screen and try
   get the hidden monster bonus (if there is one).
3. Try to evade the enemies using ladders and escape routes rather than
   trapping or killing them.
4. Try to optimize the object collection order, and exit the level at the
   ladder reaching the top of the screen in the minimum possible time.
